#summary Starting Neurospaces development.
#labels Phase-Implementation

[Index]

[NeurospacesRepository]

= Introduction =

  * Required tools are gdb, gcc, (x)emacs with elisp packages.
  * The neurospaces NDF file format has a special elisp package for use with (x)emacs.
  * For version control I use Monotone (http://www.monotone.ca/), monotone is also supported by the InstallerPackage.
  * The monotone I use is statically linked.  Because Monotone is a distributed version control system, developers sometimes exchange monotone repositories and monotone executables.
  * You can optionally use the InstallerPackage to do the initial directory layout.

= Basic Directory layout =

  * there is a directory `~/neurospaces_project` in your home directory.
  * the directory `~/neurospaces_project/MTN` contains all monotone repositories accessible to the InstallerPackage.
  * every software package has its own subdirectory, eg. `~/neurospaces_project/heccer`
  * inside a software package directory there are several subdirectories:
|| `~/neurospaces_project/heccer/docs` || contains documentation not included in the distribution. ||
|| `~/neurospaces_project/heccer/source/snapshots/0` || contains the source code you are working on. ||
|| `~/neurospaces_project/heccer/snapshots/0/_MTN` || is the directory with the monotone options specific to the source code. ||
|| `~/neurospaces_project/heccer/source/snapshots/0/installed` || optionally contains a locally installed version of the software package. ||
|| `~/neurospaces_project/heccer/source/snapshots/patches` || contains diffs / patches to your code. ||

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages