#summary The Neurospaces developer package.

= Introduction =

Developer utilities that comply with Neurospaces development standards.

Some of the utilities currently depend on monotone for source code version control due to their configuration.  It is possible to work with other version control systems.


= Utilities =

  * release_extract: extract release information from a monotone repository.  When a Tag is set, that will be the result, otherwise the SHA of the current base revision will be the result.
  * release_expand: do keyword expansion, see the manpage in the source for more details.
  * neurospaces_status: check the status of the source code on your machine with the monotone repositories.
  * neurospaces_build: perform various build operations, do 'neurospaces_build --help' to see how it works.  Also look at ReleaseProcedure.

= Examples =

  * See also InstallingFromScratch
  * building a release for the developer package (see also ReleaseProcedure):
    1 Tag the code, eg. we use the tag 'build-9'
{{{
neurospaces_build --tag build-9 --verbose --verbose --verbose --no-compile --no-configure --no-install --regex developer --developer
}}}
    2 Build the release for the tagged code:
{{{
neurospaces_build --dist --verbose --verbose --verbose --no-compile --no-configure --no-install --regex developer --developer
}}}
    3 Or with one command line:
{{{
neurospaces_build --tag build-11 --dist --verbose --verbose --verbose --no-compile --no-configure --no-install --regex developer --developer
}}}

= Other Examples =

    4 Uninstalling 4 packages on your developer machine:
{{{
neurospaces_build --verbose --verbose --verbose --no-compile --no-configure --uninstall --regex '(model_container|heccer|ssp|studio)' --developer
}}}
    5 Building checked releases for four packages:
{{{
neurospaces_build --verbose --verbose --verbose --no-compile --no-configure --distcheck --regex '(model_container|heccer|ssp|studio)' --developer
}}}

= Other =

  * mcad2doxy: convert obsoleted multicad documentation to doxygen format, this is working for about 60%.