#summary Installing Neurospaces for development on Fedora 10

= Introduction =

Installing Neurospaces on Fedora 10 requires executing the following major steps with administrator priviliges:

  * Prepare and upgrade the system software.
  * Download and Install the Neurospaces developer package
  * Install the other software packages.
  * Check if the installation was successful.

= Prepare and upgrade the system software =

  * Install the following packages using the System -> Administration -> Add/Remove Software menu.
    * perl-YAML
    * perl-Expect (and its dependency perl-IO)
    * monotone-0.44 (and its dependency, crypto libraries, install the client package, but not the server package)

= Download and Install the Neurospaces developer package =

  * Download the latest version (currently userdocs-6) of the Neurospaces developer package, available from sourceforge (http://sourceforge.net/projects/neurospaces/files/, it is currently called installer-userdocs-6.tar.gz.
  * Change to the directory where you downloaded the file into.
  * Unpack the archive (type 'tar xfz installer-userdocs-6.tar.gz).
  * Change to the directory with the content of the archive (type 'cd installer-userdocs-6').
  * Configure (type './configure').
  * Compile (type 'make').
  * Install (type 'make install').

= Install the other software packages =

  * Use the Neurospaces installer script to create the correct directory layout.
  * Use the Neurospaces installer script to download and install the other packages (type 'neurospaces_install').