#summary Installation on the MAC.
#labels G3doc,Deprecated

G3 Doc: installation-osx

[Index]

[InstallerPackage]

[NeurospacesRepository]

= Introduction =

This page explains how to do a developer installation of GENESIS on a MAC.  Almost the same installation procedure for Neurospaces on a regular PC works on the MAC.


== Installing Dependencies ==

Note that some installation must be done from the terminal. The terminal can be found in the Applications/Utilities folder. Would be a good idea to drag the terminal to the doc for easy access.

  * Install monotone, this is freely available as a package from the monotone website http://monotone.ca/.
  * Install Xcode, the Apple Development Toolset. It is available disk 2 of Mac OSX under optional install. It is also available from the Apple Developer Website here http://developer.apple.com/technology/xcode.html you will need a valid Apple ID to log in and access the developer page. _Note: It is not advised to use the compilers available from macports._
  * Install the following perl dependencies via CPAN:
    # YAML
    # Inline
    # RecDescent
    # Expect (and its dependency perl-IO)
    # ExtUtils
    # Data::Comparator
    # File::Find::Rule

== Installation  ==

Once these dependencies have been met you can pull source code from the GENESIS repository and do a build on your machine with the following commands:

 * _neurospaces_create_directories_
 * _neurospaces_pull_
 * _neurospaces_update_
 * _neurospaces_configure_
 * _neurospaces_install (requires admin password)_

Once these have completed you can test your installation by performing this command:

  _neurospaces_check_

This will perform a series of regression tests that will indicate any inconsistencies with your installation.