#summary Installation of neurospaces packages from scratch
#labels Phase-Deploy

[Index]

InstallerPackage

= Introduction =

Installation of neurospaces packages on a Linux system.

Because Neurospaces is compliant with the CBI simulator architecture, it consists of many independent software packages.  To facilitate the installation of these packages, an installer has been written.

First you need to install the dependencies (ListOfDependencies).

In a summary, first install the InstallerPackage manually, then for downloading and installing:

{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --src-tag build-25 --src-dir <path-to-a-directory-for-unpacking> --regex 'heccer|ssp|studio|model-container' --verbose
}}}

For checking:
{{{
neurospaces_build --check --no-install --src-tag build-25 --src-dir <path-to-a-directory-for-unpacking> --regex 'heccer|ssp|studio|model-container' --verbose
}}}

Or all with one command

{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --src-tag build-25 --src-dir <path-to-a-directory-for-unpacking> --check --regex 'heccer|ssp|studio|model-container' --verbose
}}}


= Details =

(This is based on installer-build-13.tar.gz).

  * Install the neurospaces installer.
    * mkdir tmp ; cd tmp
    * mv <path to your installer package> tmp/installer-build-13.tar.gz
    * tar xfz installer-build-13.tar.gz
    * cd installer-build-13
    * ./configure
    * make
    * make check (some tests are known to fail at this moment, e.g. the test that downloads from a non-existent server fails, that is ok).
    * sudo make install
  Now the neurospaces installer has been installed.
  * Make a directory to contain downloaded packages.
    * mkdir $HOME/automated
  * Download and install the other packages
  This is done automatically by the neurospaces installer.  Use the following command line to install version 'des-10' of all packages:
{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --regex 'model-container|heccer|ssp|studio' --src-tag des-10 --src-dir $HOME/automated
}}}

  Now go for a coffee.

  * To select individual packages, use the --regex option, e.g. to install only heccer:
{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --regex heccer --src-tag des-10 --src-dir $HOME/automated
}}}
    At this moment, not all packages are available for download.  So always use the option --regex 'model-container|heccer|ssp|studio'.
  * If you don't trust what is going to happen, first use the --verbose option (times 3) and --dry-run option and pipe to less (or more):
{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --src-tag des-10 --src-dir $HOME/automated --verbose --verbose --verbose --dry-run | less
}}}
  * If you want to test the packages, use the --check option:
{{{
neurospaces_build --download-server downloads.sourceforge.net --src-tag des-10 --src-dir $HOME/automated --check
}}}
  Now go for a coffee, and come back in an hour -- all the packages get tested, which takes some time.
  * If you have installed the packages, and just want to test them, omit the download options:
{{{
neurospaces_build --src-tag des-10 --src-dir $HOME/automated --check
}}}