#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

Ranger (ranger.tacc.utexas.edu) of TACC is currently the fourth fastest computer in the world.  It does not have all the perl modules necessary to compile and test Neurospaces.


= Details =

Make sure perl can find the modules you are going to install in your home directory.

{{{
mkdir -p ~/lib/perl5
echo '
export PERL5LIB=${PERL5LIB}:~/perl5lib' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
}}}

Empty the CPAN config such that you can install perl modules in your home directory.

{{{
mkdir -p ~/.cpan/CPAN
echo "\$CPAN::Config = {}"> ~/.cpan/CPAN/MyConfig.pm
}}}

Now start the CPAN shell to configure the CPAN installer:

{{{
perl -MCPAN -e shell
}}}

Accept all the defaults until you reach this question:

{{{
Every Makefile.PL is run by perl in a separate process. Likewise we
run 'make' and 'make install' in processes. If you have any
parameters (e.g. PREFIX, LIB, UNINST or the like) you want to pass
to the calls, please specify them here.

If you don't understand this question, just press ENTER.

Parameters for the 'perl Makefile.PL' command?
Typical frequently used settings:

    PREFIX=~/perl       non-root users (please see manual for more hints)

}}}

Give the following answer:

PREFIX=~/lib/perl5 LIB=~/lib/perl5/lib INSTALLMAN1DIR=~/lib/perl5/man1 INSTALLMAN3DIR=~/lib/perl5/man3


Finish the CPAN configuration by accepting the rest of the defaults. When asked for which mirrors you want to use, pick 10 or so in the United States.
Finally, when presented with the "cpan>" prompt, press Ctrl-D to exit.



Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages