#summary Things to install before installing Neurospaces
#labels Phase-Deploy

[Index]

InstallingFromScratch

PrerequisiteScript

= Introduction =

Dependencies fall into two categories:

  1 Binary dependencies.
  1 Perl dependencies.

For some linux distributions, these can be installed automatically using the PrerequisiteScript.

= Details =

Binary dependencies:

  * a compiler, and a makefile system.  See the GNU website.  Most Linux distributions come with these installed.
  * GTK+, available for all common Linux distributions.
  * SDL2 for visualization functions.  For most systems there are prebuilt packages available.  Note that SDL2 is required, SDL1 does not suffice.
  * Graphviz, available from www.graphviz.org.  For redhat users: if you install this from an RPM, be sure to know what you are doing.
  * Python and Perl developer packages (eg. the file Python.h must be installed, and is often distributed in a separate rpm or deb file).

Perl dependencies:

All the following dependencies are available from CPAN (search.cpan.org).  You can install them with a command line like "sudo perl -MCPAN -e 'install Mail::Sender'", where "Mail::Sender" should be replaced with the appropriate package name.  Also remove things between parentheses ("sudo perl -MCPAN -e 'install Glib'", but not "sudo perl -MCPAN -e 'install Glib (Gtk2)'").

    * `Mail::Sender`
    * `Clone`
    * `Expect::Simple`
    * `YAML`
    * `File::Find::Rule`
    * `Digest::SHA`
    * `Data::Utilities`

    * `ExtUtils::Depends` (Gtk2)
    * `ExtUtils::PkgConfig` (Gtk2)
    * `Glib` (Gtk2)
    * `Cairo` (Gtk2)
    * `Gtk2`

    * Bundle::CPAN (SDL uses Build.pl, so make sure you have the latest)

    * SDL, only required for the Neurospaces Studio
        * On a redhat based system, I have downloaded and installed these rpms:
            * SDL_gfx-2.0.13-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_gfx-debuginfo-2.0.13-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_gfx-demos-2.0.13-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_gfx-devel-2.0.13-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_image-1.2.5-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_image-devel-1.2.5-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_mixer-1.2.7-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_mixer-devel-1.2.7-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_net-1.2.6-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_net-devel-1.2.6-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_Perl-2.1.3.tar.gz
            * SDL_ttf-2.0.8-1.i386.rpm
            * SDL_ttf-devel-2.0.8-1.i386.rpm
        * For debian based systems (includes ubuntu)
            * the debian files equivalent for the above rpm files are included in the standard debian repositories.
    * `GraphViz`, only required for the Neurospaces Studio