#summary Accessing the NeurospacesRepository from the InstallerPackage

[Index]

[NeurospacesRepository]

= Introduction =

The NeurospacesRepository is accessible from the InstallerPackage.  Important for this feature to work is to have the [DeveloperMachine correct directory layout on your developer machine].

In summary, what you want to do is this: pulling the set of default packages from the servers:
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-pull virtual2.cbi.utsa.edu --repo-co --verbose --developer --directories-create --no-configure --no-compile --no-install
}}}

This command has options that inhibit the default actions of configuration, compilation and installation.  If you also want to compile and install in just one run, simply omit those options:
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-pull virtual2.cbi.utsa.edu --repo-co --verbose --developer --directories-create
}}}

There are developer friendly frontends to the neurospaces_build script in the InstallerPackage:

  * neurospaces_serve: starts serving the source code repositories such that other people can pull and sync to your machine (note that this locks all your databases).
  * neurospaces_pull: download the source code from a repository.
  * neurospaces_status: check for local source code modification (no network required).
  * neurospaces_sync: synchronize local source code modification with a repository.
  * neurospaces_update: makes the local source code up to date using the repositories locally stored on your PC (so this is a local operation).


= Details =

  * pulling to your local repository
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-pull virtual2.cbi.utsa.edu --no-configure --no-install --no-compile --verbose --developer --regex 'heccer|model-container|ssp'
}}}

  * checkout from your local repository
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-co --no-configure --no-install --no-compile --verbose --developer --regex 'heccer|model-container|ssp'
}}}

  * When you start from scratch it is useful to create the workspace directories
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-co --no-configure --no-install --no-compile --verbose --developer --regex 'heccer|model-container|ssp' --directories-create
}}}

  * combining everything for the set of default packages, including compilation and installation
{{{
neurospaces_build --repo-pull virtual2.cbi.utsa.edu --repo-co --verbose --developer --directories-create
}}}

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages