#summary An overview on the neurospaces_cron script.

= Introduction =

The neurospaces_cron script is part of the [InstallerPackage], its function is to perform sanity checks for communicating with a [NeurospacesRepository], system installation, and running tests to see that the software packages are properly working. This page is here to serve as a guide to show how to use the script, set up a cronjob and how to avoid some common pitfalls.

---

= Running =

The neurospaces_cron script can be run by invoking "neurospace_cron" from the command line after installing the neurospaces installer package. There are command line arguments available to customize aspects of the cronjob:

  * outputdir - _This tells neurospaces_cron what directory to write its output log to._
  * config - _Reads in a YAML configuration file for setting parameters._


---
= Configuration File =

A configuration file is a YAML with values set for the following optional parameters:

  * MAILTO - _An email recipient to send an email to on completion of the job_
  * MAILFROM - _A desired email address to send a completion email from._
  * OUTPUTDIR - _A directory to write the output log data._

Example configuration file`:`
{{{
---
MAILTO: sysadminspam@gmail.com
MAILFROM: g3tester@repo-genesis3.cbi.utsa.edu
OUTPUTDIR: /var/www/tests
}}}

---
= Cron Job =

There are several ways to run a cronjob on a machine, here are some of the easiest ways to do this on a Linux based machine. These typically require administrator rights to set up.

*cron.d*
This is a directory in /etc/, you can put a cronjob formatted text file in here and it will get picked up by the cron daemon. A typical invocation for neurospaces_cron would be with a line like this:

01 00 `*` `*` `*` g3tester neurospaces_cron

This particular job is set to run at exactly one minute after midnight. If you want to have the job run more frequently you can do this:


01 `*`/8 `*` `*` `*` g3tester neurospaces_cron

This makes the job run every 8 hours.

g3tester is a  user set up for permissions to perform a 'sudo make install,' and 'sudo make uninstall.' To set up a regular user to use sudo, add them to the /etc/sudoers file (see next section). 

---
= Sudoers File =

The suoders file is a file which grants a particular user the ability to run a command or set of commands in super user mode. It is found in /etc/sudoers. There are some variables here which must be set in order to allow a regular user to perform a neurospaces_cron job since it involves doing an install and uninstall of the neurospaces_project to the system.

To allow out g3tester user to perform any command anywhere on the system in super user mode you would enter in a line like this:

_g3tester    ALL=(ALL)       ALL_

This will however still ask for a password, which will stop a cronjob. To avoid the system asking for a password we use the NOPASSWD option like so:

_g3tester        ALL=(ALL)       NOPASSWD: ALL_

Since it is desirable to only allow a regular user to perform commands they absolutely need to run we can constrain their privileges my inserting a command list:

_g3tester        ALL=(ALL)       NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/make /usr/local/bin/neurospaces_cron_

This now gives g3tester the ability to execute only the commands neurospaces_cron and make, without needing a password. More commands can be added as needed simply by appending them to the list with a space delimiter.