#summary The tester configuration file.

= Introduction =

The Neurospaces tester needs to know certain things about your machine before tests can be executed.  These things are in the tester configuration file, named `tests.config`, located in your current directory.

It is normal that a software package has multiple `tests.config` files, eg. in several directories.

The config file defines a perl hash (soon JSON supported to).  In the test specifications, this hash is available in the variable `main::config`.  So to access the `core_directory` entry in the hash, you have `$main::config->{core_directory}`.

Here is an example:

{{{
#!/usr/bin/perl -w

use strict;

my $package_name = "heccer";
my $package_label = "bf53d1eea85235e08a0f39d09a66d6826f730641-0";
my $package_version = "bf53d1eea85235e08a0f39d09a66d6826f730641-0-0";

my $monotone_id = `mtn automate get_current_revision_id`;
chomp $monotone_id;

my $config
    = {
       core_directory => './',
       description => 'Configure the tester when run from this directory',
       outputs_dir => './tests/html',
       package => {
                   label => $package_label,
                   name => $package_name,
                   version => $package_version,
                   version_control_id => $monotone_id,
                  },
       tests_directory => './tests/specifications',
      };

return $config;
}}}


= Details =

  * `core_directory` is the directory with the source code of your package.  Tests can use this directory to read files.
  * `description` is a few word description of the tests.
  * `outputs_dir` defines the directory where to put the htmlified test specifications (generated using `tests_2_html`).
  * `package` contains package version information.
  * `tests_dir` contains the directory where to search for test specifications with the `.t` suffix.