#summary Installing on Neurospaces for development on Ubuntu, lenny/sid
#labels installation,G3doc

See also

  * [Fedora10]

G3 Doc: installation-ubuntu-lennysid

= Introduction =

Installing Neurospaces on Ubuntu requires executing the following major steps with administrator priviliges:

  * Prepare and upgrade the system software.
  * Download and Install the Neurospaces developer package
  * Install the other software packages.
  * Check if the installation was successful.


= Prepare and upgrade the system software =

  * Install the following packages using the System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager menu.
    * perl-CPAN (only required to run the tests, see below).
    * libyaml-perl
    * libexpect-perl (and its dependency perl-IO)
    * libinline-perl
    * autoconf
    * automake
    * libc6-dev
    * libncurses5-dev
    * flex
    * bison
    * libperl-dev
    * python-dev
    * swig
    * libreadline5-dev

  * monotone-0.44 (available as a statically linked binary from http://monotone.ca/)

= Download and Install the Neurospaces developer package =

  * Download the latest version (currently userdocs-6) of the Neurospaces developer package, available from sourceforge (http://sourceforge.net/projects/neurospaces/files/, it is currently called installer-userdocs-6.tar.gz.
  * Change to the directory where you downloaded the file into.
  * Unpack the archive (type 'tar xfz installer-userdocs-6.tar.gz).
  * Change to the directory with the content of the archive (type 'cd installer-userdocs-6').
  * Configure (type './configure').
  * Compile (type 'make').
  * Install (type 'make install').

= Install the other software packages =

  * Use the Neurospaces installer script to create the correct directory layout (type 'neurospaces_create_directories').
  * Pull the archives of the source code (type 'neurospaces_pull').
  * Update the source code in the working directories (type 'neurospaces_update').
  * Compile and install the software (type 'neurospaces_install').

= Check if the installation was successful =

This step is optional.

  * Install the dependencies for running the tests:
    * perl -MCPAN -e 'install Test::More'
    * perl -MCPAN -e 'install Clone'
    * perl -MCPAN -e 'install Data::Utilities'
    * perl -MCPAN -e 'install File::Find::Rule'
    * perl -MCPAN -e 'install Digest::SHA'
  * Run the tests of all the packages and save the output to a file (type 'neurospaces_check >/tmp/check.out 2>&1').
  * Check the output (type 'less /tmp/check.out', especially search for lines with the string 'error_count').